The new database of the Global Terrestrial Network for
Permafrost (GTN-P)
B. K. Biskaborn1, J.-P. Lanckman2, H. Lantuit1,3, K. Elger4, D. A. Streletskiy5, W. L. Cable6, and V. E. Romanovsky6,7
1 Alfred Wegener Institute Helmholtz Centre for Polar and Marine Research, Potsdam, Germany
2 Arctic Portal, Akureyri, Iceland
3 Institute for Earth and Environmental Sciences, University of Potsdam, Potsdam, Germany
4 Helmholtz Centre Potsdam GFZ German Research Centre for Geosciences, Potsdam, Germany
5 Department of Geography, The George Washington University, Washington, USA
6 Geophysical Institute, University of Alaska Fairbanks, Fairbanks, USA
7 Earth Cryosphere Institute, Tyumen, Russia
Correspondence to: B. K. Biskaborn (boris.biskaborn@awi.de)
Received: 15 February 2015 – Published in Earth Syst. Sci. Data Discuss.: 9 March 2015
Revised: 20 July 2015 – Accepted: 21 July 2015 – Published: 14 September 2015

Abstract. 
The Global Terrestrial Network for Permafrost (GTN-P) provides the first dynamic database associated
with the Thermal State of Permafrost (TSP) and the Circumpolar Active Layer Monitoring (CALM)
programs, which extensively collect permafrost temperature and active layer thickness (ALT) data from Arctic,
Antarctic and mountain permafrost regions. The purpose of GTN-P is to establish an early warning system for
the consequences of climate change in permafrost regions and to provide standardized thermal permafrost data
to global models. In this paper we introduce the GTN-P database and perform statistical analysis of the GTN-P
metadata to identify and quantify the spatial gaps in the site distribution in relation to climate-effective environmental
parameters. We describe the concept and structure of the data management system in regard to user
operability, data transfer and data policy. We outline data sources and data processing including quality control
strategies based on national correspondents. Assessment of the metadata and data quality reveals 63 % metadata
completeness at active layer sites and 50 % metadata completeness for boreholes.
Voronoi tessellation analysis on the spatial sample distribution of boreholes and active layer measurement
sites quantifies the distribution inhomogeneity and provides a potential method to locate additional permafrost
research sites by improving the representativeness of thermal monitoring across areas underlain by permafrost.
The depth distribution of the boreholes reveals that 73 % are shallower than 25 m and 27 % are deeper, reaching a
maximum of 1 km depth. Comparison of the GTN-P site distribution with permafrost zones, soil organic carbon
contents and vegetation types exhibits different local to regional monitoring situations, which are illustrated with
maps. Preferential slope orientation at the sites most likely causes a bias in the temperature monitoring and
should be taken into account when using the data for global models. The distribution of GTN-P sites within
zones of projected temperature change show a high representation of areas with smaller expected temperature
rise but a lower number of sites within Arctic areas where climate models project extreme temperature increase.
GTN-P metadata used in this paper are available at doi:10.1594/PANGAEA.842821.

1 Introduction
Warming of the cryosphere is likely to exceed the global
average temperature increase (ACIA, 2004; Groisman and
Soja, 2009; IPCC, 2013; Miller et al., 2010). Permafrost is
defined as ground that remains frozen for at least two consecutive
years (Van Everdingen, 1998). Ongoing permafrost
warming (Romanovsky et al., 2010b) and near-surface thawing
in permafrost regions associated with rising air temperatures
are considered to reinforce warming of the atmosphere
through the conversion of the large soil organic carbon pool
in permafrost into greenhouse gases, a process termed “permafrost
carbon feedback” (Grosse et al., 2011; Hugelius et
al., 2013; Schaefer et al., 2014; Schuur et al., 2013). Worldwide
monitoring of permafrost is essential to understand the
impact of climate change on its thermal state and to assess
the impact of permafrost thaw on the Earth climate system.
Hence, international collaboration on data collection
and analyses is a great challenge to overcome in this advancing
scientific problem of global concern. Addressing the demands
of data providers, data managers, and data users is imperative
to enable the reliable creation of growing data sets.
Moreover the willingness of scientists to share data and to
participate in data management strategies are crucial requirements
for scientific advancement (Papale et al., 2012).
The monitoring of essential climate variables (ECVs)
for permafrost (Fig. 1) has been delegated to GTN-P by
the World Meteorological Organization (WMO) global observing
community (www.wmo.int/pages/prog/gcos/). GTNP
established permafrost temperature and active layer thickness
(ALT) as ECVs related to two specific monitoring programs:
(i) TSP (Thermal State of Permafrost) and (ii) CALM
(Circumpolar Active Layer Monitoring) (Romanovsky et
al., 2010b; Shiklomanov et al., 2012). Formerly known
as GTNet-P, GTN-P was developed in 1999 by the International
Permafrost Association (IPA) with active support
by the Canadian Geological Survey (Brown et al., 2000;
Burgess et al., 2000) under the Global Climate Observing
System (GCOS) and the Global Terrestrial Observing Network
(GTOS).
The growing number of high-resolution measurements and
annual collection of permafrost data clearly prompted the
need for comprehensive management of the GTN-P, including
its data management system. Several databases exist for
particular regions in Europe (Juliussen et al., 2010; PERMOS,
2013). While the permafrost data from the USA are
archived with ACADIS (Advanced Cooperative Arctic Data
and Information Service), which took over for the former
CADIS (Cooperative Arctic Data and Information Service)
as a repository for all data from National Science Foundation
(NSF)-funded Arctic research. A good example of
DOI-referenced data publication is Nordicana D, an online
data report series of the Canadian Centre d’études Nordiques
(CEN), including long-term time series of permafrost borehole
temperatures (Allard et al., 2014).
Figure 1. Framework within the Global Terrestrial Network for
Permafrost defined by permafrost temperature and active layer
thickness (ALT) data collected by the TSP and CALM programs,
respectively.
The GTN-P experienced substantial growth at the beginning
of the 21st century. About 350 boreholes for temperature
monitoring were established and a considerable number
of active layer depth observations were collected during
the 4th International Polar Year (IPY) from March 2007 to
March 2009 (Brown, 2010). Efforts of the IPA and the GTNP
at the end of the IPY resulted in reports on the thermal
state of permafrost in high latitudes and high altitudes which
were called the “IPA snapshot” (Christiansen et al., 2010;
Romanovsky et al., 2010a; Smith et al., 2010; Vieira et al.,
2010; Zhao et al., 2010). The Geological Survey of Canada
(GSC) also invested great efforts in collecting and storing
thermal permafrost data from the western Arctic for GTN-P.
The TSP (Brown et al., 2010) and CALM (Shiklomanov et
al., 2008) programs oversee the collection of permafrost temperature
and active layer thickness data from Arctic, Antarctic
and mountain permafrost regions. These programs provide
the majority of the content to the GTN-P Database
(Fig. 1). Both TSP and CALM provide an online data repository
and are actively expanding observational networks.
However, all existing permafrost repositories so far were
conceived as rather static aggregations of data, and the modern
permafrost community lacks a dynamic database with the
capability to interlink the permafrost community and scientists
working in other fields of research such as climate modelers,
biologists or engineers.
The long-term goal of GTN-P is to obtain a comprehensive
view of the spatial structure, trends and variability in permafrost
temperature as well as active layer thickness (GTNP,
2012). The international network of permafrost observatories
will provide an early warning system for the impacts
of climate change in permafrost regions (Romanovsky et al.,
2010b) and provide standardized permafrost data needed as
input to global climate models.
In this paper, we introduce the first dynamic database
for parameters measured by the GTN-P. The new GTN-P
Earth Syst. Sci. Data, 7, 245–259, 2015 www.earth-syst-sci-data.net/7/245/2015/
B. K. Biskaborn et al.: The new database of the Global Terrestrial Network for Permafrost 247
Database is a state-of-the-art tool for storing, processing and
sharing parameters relevant to the permafrost ECV measured
in the Arctic, Antarctic and mountain regions. It is hosted at
the Arctic Portal in Akureyri (Iceland) and managed in close
cooperation with the Alfred Wegener Institute, Helmholtz
Centre for Polar and Marine Research (AWI), in Potsdam
(Germany) and supported by the European Union Seventh
Framework Programme project PAGE21.
The specific objectives of this paper are (i) to describe the
framework of the GTN-P Data Management System, (ii) to
provide statistics on site distribution in the GTN-P by performing
spatial analyses on the metadata, and (iii) to identify
spatial gaps in the GTN-P site distribution and compare the
results with relevant environmental geospatial data sets.
